- [Instructor] We have looked at several instructions
from Dockerfile that can be used to package your image.
We looked at CMD, we looked at RUN,
Add, Copy, From, and a few others.
Let's look at some other instructions
that are equally important as well.
So in this one, we'll look at RUN, CMD and ENTRYPOINT.
And often these are confused with each other,
so it's important to put them together.
RUN is typically used for installing software package,
or running a script from your container file system.
So typically you'd say apt-get update or apt-get install
and then you will update your operating system.
Because the base operating system that you might be using
that image might have been pushed a few days ago,
or a few weeks ago, and then you'll always want
to update it to the latest one.
Another example is in this case,
you might want to run add-user script,
which is from WildFly and create administrative user.
So these kind of commands, which you want to execute only once
are run using the RUN instruction.
CMD, as we talked about
is the default for executing a container.
And, this is the default command.
We talked about how an image can have multiple CMD but only
the last CMD command is the one that is into effect.
Now, CMD can be overridden from CLI,
so let's say I'm building my own WildFly image,
and in that WildFly image, I also want to expose
the administrative port on all network interfaces.
So then I can use this CMD command
and the primary addition being the last two arguments,
what I'm saying, Management port at 0.0.0.0.
So, I can do that way, or I can say Docker run myWildFly,
which is my custom WildFly image,
and them I can override the CMD by specifying bash.
We saw an example of that earlier as well.
And last but not the least, each Docker container,
when it starts, it uses an ENTRYPOINT.
The default ENTRYPOINT is,
/bin/sh, it runs out of Shell basically.
You can override that, using the ENTRYPOINT instruction
and I'll, say, give it a particular script,
and it'll run that script,
and in that script you can do whatever you want to do.
And if you want to override this from the CLI,
then you have a --entrypoint option
which allows you to override as well.
Let's take a look at some other instructions.
Let's say you are building an application
and in that application, you are publishing arrest API
on a certain port, or on a network port.
Then, you need to expose that port.
So for example, in our WildFly image,
let's say we want to expose an administrative port as well,
then we'll have to add, EXPOSE 9990.
Expose only exposes the port from the container.
But, the important part is to understand,
when you are running the container,
at that point of time you still need to say,
Docker run either -P or -p
to publish the host port.
So, those two are two different exercises essentially.
You can create a mount point for a specific directory.
In a later chapter, we will talk about stateful containers,
and there we will talk about how to run a database.
So, this is particularly important,
because you want to run your container
as a stateless container and keep the state out.
So you want to create a appropriate mount point
which can then be mapped to a different volume.
We will see an example of how to run Couchbase container
and within, how the volume is mounted
at a particular directory location.
And now, when you're running the container,
at that point of time, you can say,
here is a -v volume mapping.
So the first one is on the host, which is still ~/data
and then the second part, which is opt/couchbase/var,
is in the container.
Now, when you are building the image,
you can build the image as a certain user.
This is typically used for setting the UID
when you want to run the image.
And last, but not the least,
one of the instructions that I want to talk,
which was recently added in Dockerfile,
was in Docker 1.12, is healthcheck.
Now, important part to understand is,
this is a very great addition,
because a container reporting status
as up for one hour may return errors.
Because a container may be up, but the application within
may not really be functioning as you were expecting it to.
So, there is really no way for you
to correlate the two up until this instruction.
Now, you add this healthcheck instruction,
and in this case what it's saying is,
perform the healthcheck every five seconds,
which is --interval,
then you are saying the timeout is three seconds.
That, if in three seconds it does not return a result,
mark the container as unhealthy and then you are saying,
what is the command that I need to run?
And in this case, what I'm saying is,
just ping localhost:8091
which is the administrative port of Couchbase
and Couchbase also has a rest API.
So, I'm saying, /pools, ping that rest API
and make sure that the database pools are available,
and if it fails, then you exit with status 1.
So, essentially what will happen is,
every five seconds the Docker container,
or the Docker engine will make a ping to the container.
If the pool exists, then it's good.
If the pool doesn't exist, or if for some reason,
the pool is not accessible within three seconds,
it'll mark the container as unhealthy.
And, if it's unhealthy, then the Docker scheduler
might kick in and reschedule the container somewhere else.
So, this truly allows you to kind of tap into
the application inside the container's health
as opposed to just the container itself.
These are some of the instructions that you'll find useful
in addition to the more common ones
that were explained earlier.